well as we mentioned on Foreign Affairs
President Biden confirmed that he had
ordered the US military to build a
temporary Pier off the coast of Gaza he
said it would ensure a massive increase
in aid for Palestinians he warned Israel
that humanitarian assistance should
never be used as a bargaining chip
protecting and saving innocent lives has
to be a priority as we look to the
Future the only real solution to the
situation is a two-state solution over
time
and I say
this as a lifelong supporter of Israel
my entire career no one has a stronger
record with Israel than I do I challenge
any of you here I'm the only American
president of isra Israel in
Wartime but there is no other path that
guarantees Israel security and democracy
there's no other path that guarantees
Palestinian can live in peace with PO
with peace and dignity well let's speak
to our Middle East correspondent yolan
Nell who is in Jerusalem so we heard
that warning to Israel that Aid should
never be used as a bargaining chip how
has that message gone down in
Israel well we haven't had an official
response but certainly it's been picked
up as you'd expect by the Israeli media
and that along with a promise by Mr
Biden that Israeli hostages Who Remain
uh in the Gaza Strip will be released
that he is dedicating his efforts to
working on that and we know that were of
course um some Israeli hostage uh
families and former Israeli hostages uh
in the chamber where Mr Biden uh was
speaking now a lot of focus here is on
that plan for a new uh temporary uh port
for Gaza a temporary Causeway that would
be built to allow uh Supply ships
bringing Aid um to get close to Gaza at
the moment it doesn't have any kind of
deep sea port um a lot more explanation
of what exactly that that means um
because there was a briefing given by
the White House in advance of the State
of the Union Address um it appears that
a ships will uh go to Cyprus um and
there Israeli Security checks will be
carried out and then um there will be uh
us warships uh or US military personnel
involved offshore in the overseeing uh
proceedings but there will be no us uh
military boots on the ground in Gaza
involved in the construction of this
Causeway um we understand that it could
take a month or two to complete um and
of course that won't address then the
immediate need uh to get Aid into Gaza
but it does look like President Biden
really wanted to have some kind of a
concrete step to show that US military
action was being taken amid a lot of
frustration with its close Ally Israel
um it's been calling for weeks now to
increase the flow of Aid going into Gaza
yeah do you think the fact that they
having to build this pier is a sign that
Benjamin Netanyahu isn't listening to
the us about getting more Aid in on the
ground well the calls from the US and uh
from un agencies have been for Israel to
open up uh more border crossings uh into
the Gaza Strip to allow Aid to get
through um and to allow Aid distribution
to take place more effectively of course
what we've seen is um the US and uh
Jordan other countries resorting to Aid
drops uh in recent days which is not a
very effective way of getting Aid to
those who need it the most um I mean is
Isel does have its own container Port uh
ashod just about a 40-minute drive uh to
the north of the Gaza Strip there's been
a lot of resistance in Israel to using
its facilities to bring in Aid and so
Aid at the moment is mostly going in um
via Egypt it's flown in there and comes
in through the crossings uh on the in
the south of the Gaza Strip yanel in
Jerusalem thank you very much